# Application

Activity recognition for public space surveillance using the [CAVIAR](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/rbf/CAVIARDATA1/) benchmark dataset.

# Directory Structure
- /datasets. The CAVIAR dataset in a format compatible with Prob-EC.
- /event_description. Domain-dependent rules for activity recognition.
- /auxiliary. CAVIAR-dataset-dependent auxiliary knowledge.

# Dataset Download Instructions
1. Visit: https://owncloud.skel.iit.demokritos.gr/index.php/s/An9iCqhoZJiZuZj and download "caviar.zip". It contains various probability-annotated versions of CAVIAR.
2. Extract the contents of "caviar.zip". The resulting folder is organised as follows: 

```
caviar	
└───original	
	└─ 01-Walk1
		└─ ground_truth
			|	01-Walk1_annotation.txt
		└─ smooth
			└─	0.5
				|	wk1gtAppearanceIndv_smooth.pbl
				|	wk1gtMovementIndv_smooth.pbl
			└─	1.0
				|   ...
			.
			.
			.
			└─ 8.0
		└─ intermediate
		└─ strong
	.
	.
	.
	└─ 28-Fight_Chase
└───enhanced
	└─ 01-Walk1
	.
	.
	.
	└─ 28-Fight_Chase
```
The dataset under the "enhanced" folder may contain "abrupt" events, which aids in the recognition of "fighting" activities. These events may appear in videos 25-28. The subfolders of "enhanced"/"original", e.g., "01-Walk1", contain datasets comprising the "simple-derived events" (SDEs) appearing in the corresponding video, e.g., video number 1, attached with probability values. 

Each "video" folder contains 4 subfolders: "ground_truth", "smooth", "intermediate" and "strong"

- "ground_truth" contains, for each complex event in the video, the list of intervals during which is takes place. 
- "smooth" contains versions of the CAVIAR in which probabilities have only been attached to SDEs (and not to contextual information, e.g., a person's coordinates in some video frame). These probabilities are generated by a Gamma distribution with a varying mean. 
- "intermediate" contains versions of the CAVIAR in which probabilities have additionally been attached to contextual information. 
- "strong" contains versions of the CAVIAR which extend their corresponding "intermediate" versions by including spurius SDEs that do not belong to the original dataset. These SDEs have been added randomly using a uniform distribution. 

Each "noise version" folder contains various subfolders, whose names correspond to the mean of the Gamma distribution used to generate the corresponding version of the dataset. Each of these subfolders contains two files. The one containing "Appearance" in its name includes contextual information, while the other one, containing "Movement" in its name, includes SDEs. These two files comprise a probabilistic version of the corresponding CAVIAR video.

As an example, the folder "caviar/enhanced/25-Fight_RunAway1/intermediate/2.0" contains a probabilistic version of CAVIAR video 25 which (i) includes "abrupt" type events, (ii) both SDEs and contextual information are assigned probability values and (iii) these probability values are generated using a Gamma distribution with mean 2. 




